---
layout: post
title: "Brompton Bags V City Freedom trailer"
date: 2013-11-01 11:11
comments: true
categories: General
---
I know I risk opening up the always controversial bags vs trailer debate but nonetheless I am going to throw in my tuppence worth. When on tours with my Brompton I have used combinations of the T-bag, Brompton rack pack, the O-bag and the City Freedom trailer and this is what I have found. I like a neat bike and one that does not look encumbered. If it doesn't fit in, it generally doesn't go. With the bag combination I have on occasions had to resort to wearing a small rucksack.

## Brompton Bags

1. The rack pack can, at a squeeze, carry my Terra Nova Superlite Voyager (minus poles), an ultra-lite synthetic sleeping bag, a silk liner and a Thermarest which means I can get set up at the end of the day without unpacking everything else and leave the tent up to the last moment.

2. The T-bag takes everything else. It's just broad enough to take the poles. My kitchen consists of an MSR Alpine kitchen kit, a Primus Ti stove, pocket rocket gas stove, one gas cannister and two unleaded fuel bottles. It's a squeeze but it fits.

3. Top of T-bag is a useful spot to place Power Monkey Extreme Solar Panels especially when cycling south. Strapping solar panel to rack pack is not ideal.

4. Airport check in staff do not look a Brompton bags with bewilderment.

5. I struggle to store a warm jacket and frequently I have to strap it to the top when solar panel not in use. I have to make do with a lightweight cycle jacket.

6. When using the T-bag with the rack pack I need three hands when the bike is folded  and I am getting on a train say.

7. Bike slightly unstable when parked and overfilled T-bag (which it nearly always is) can impede steering.

8. Water bottles have to be stored in mesh pockets which can be a tight squeeze when T-bag is full.

9.  Nowhere to store a camera for easy access. Pockets OK for compact but not much bigger.

10. Appear to be reasonably waterproof and hard wearing. Fitting the waterproof cover to T-bag when full is a bit of a faff but it works and I do use it as it improves my visibleness in inclement weather.

## City Freedom Trailer

1. Capacious single section where I can see everything at a glance. Tent poles fit comfortably.

2. I pack it differently everyday for some reason. Sometimes I seem to lose space. A bit of rummaging is necessary.

3. The two wheeled trailer is very stable and the drag doesn't seem to be a huge problem. I have slight misgivings about the bracing axle underneath which is held in place by a velcro strap. It has not however failed. When folded it is floppy and difficult to carry. Cable ties or bungees are usually necessary to keep everything in place.

4. Using only the O-bag and the trailer the bike looks neat and tidy.

5. Jackets can be stuffed into the mesh - as can water bottles. The top of the trailer is an ideal place for the solar panel as it is usually out of the shade.

6. Comes into its own when the bike is folded. Bike can be strapped on top of trailer which can then be used as a trolley suitcase. Numerous adjustments to straps are often necessary.

7. O-bag combination means place to store camera and valuables.

8. Airport staff don't know what to make of it and I have reserved its use for when I am going by car or by ferry.

9. It is often very difficult to find somewhere to park it outside restaurants, museums etc. I frequently clatter into bollards and other inanimate objects. The mudguards are no longer attached.

10. The wheels are 12&Prime; so that's another spare set of tubes to carry but I have not bothered as yet.
